# Architecture
This section covers the "What's that???" questions.

## About the Diagrams
I prefer the [C4 Model](https://c4model.com/) for diagrams.

According to the model, there are four levels of detail:

* **System Context**: All stakeholders should be able to read and understand this section. No product names, just areas of responsibility.
* **Container**: Nope, not that kind of container -- just a group of things. At this level we see applications and data stores.
* **Components**: A breakdown of each of the above containers into the nitty gritty of IaC-level configuration.
* **Code**: These diagrams should be automatically generated by your IDE or other tools.

The big idea is that we go from a very high-level view all the way down to where the unit-tests live.

We will show the users the System Context diagram in their landing page. The rest of the diagrams are for our internal use.

## Service Requirements Definition
This is where we capture the information that's usually lost to history: functional and non-functional requirements.

### Functional Requirements
In bullet points, this should be statements that all start with "Our user should be able to ..."

In another bullet point list, we should list out the things are specifically **NOT** going to be done.

### Non-Functional Requirements
In bullet points, list out information that will form the basis of any SLAs or SLOs.

In another bullet point list, we should list out the things are specifically **NOT** going to be targets.

### Service Level Agreement (SLA)
If we are responsible to an outside party, we need to document what we've agreed to do.
If there are different agreements to different parties, each should be identified here.

### Service Level Objective (SLO)
These are our internal targets for the service, and should include availability targets as well as performance targets.

## Using the Service
This is the advertising to our user community about what the service is and why they would want to use it.
We should also be able to use the contents of this page for any presentations about our service to any interested party.

Our big picture information (literally the System Context diagram), and try to
let people know what they can expect, and also (just as importantly) what **NOT** to expect.

Should include a Responsible / Accountable / Consulted / Involved (RACI) matrix to help people understand what's expected of them.

Link to our service's catalog of use cases or modules, if this exists. 

Also need to include information about how to contact the team (eg tickets, email, instant messenger) and escalation points.

Note that any emails provided should always be to a mailing list. Individual email accounts are subject to change as people take on new
responsibilities, go on holidays, etc etc.

## Service Maps
On this page I start with the System Container diagram(s) (ie the second-highest-zoom-level of my maps).
This map will show the containers, which will zoom into the lower level components.

Any research or background material that went into the planning will be linked for historical perspective.

## Component Map: Item 1
For each component, a separate page that headlines the Component diagram.

Here are the types of information displayed on the top-level page:

* Source code repositories
* Related AWS accounts, GCP projects or Azure subscriptions
* Related objects (eg S3 buckets, Kubernetes clusters)
* IAM roles used
* Deployment information such as Jenkins configuration required (eg stages, secrets)
* Secret stores and keys used to 

Specific feature support is broken out under further pages. Examples of underlying pages:

* Schema descriptions for your data store
* Input validation controls (eg JSON schema, Python `pydantic`)
* Feature deep dives

Your wki should include tags, so these tags should match procedures for automatic linking.

